CommonMath Polished Docs (#519)
ORNL/GridKit: GridKit/CommonMath.md

The default scale $\mu$ of these functions is chosen such that $\sigma'(0)=f_{\text{sync}}$, where $f_{\text{sync}}$ is the fundamental frequency of the `PhasorDynamics` model. As $\mu\to\infty$, $\rho$ and $q$ converge to $\text{ReLU}$ and $\text{ReQU}$ everywhere, while $\sigma$ converges to $H$ for $x\ne0$.

### Logistic Function

The Heaviside function $H$ is a unit step, defined as:

```math
\begin{aligned}
  H(x)
    &=
      \begin{cases}
        0 & x\le 0 \\[0pt]
        1 & x\gt 0
      \end{cases}
\end{aligned}
```

We use the logistic function as a smooth approximation to the Heaviside function. This approximation is evaluated using the equivalent hyperbolic-tangent form below to avoid overflow when evaluating the exponential form directly.

```math
\begin{aligned}
  \sigma(x) = \dfrac{1}{2}\left(1+\tanh\left(\dfrac{\mu x}{2}\right)\right) &\approx H(x)  
\end{aligned}
```

![](../docs/Figures/CommonMath/sigmoid.svg)

### Ramp

The rectified linear unit $\text{ReLU}$ is a one-sided ramp:

```math
\begin{aligned}
  \text{ReLU}(x)
    &=
      \begin{cases}
        0 & x\le 0 \\[0pt]
        x & x\gt 0
      \end{cases}
\end{aligned}
```

> Also known as $\text{softplus}(x)$, the Ramp function is a non-negative approximation of $\text{ReLU}(x)$. We do not use $x\,\sigma(x)$ because it introduces a negative tail for $x \lt 0$, while $\text{softplus}(x)$ stays nonnegative.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We implement the Ramp function as the $\text{softplus}(x)$, non-negative approximation of $\text{ReLU}(x)$. We do not use $x\,\sigma(x)$ because it introduces a negative tail for $x \lt 0$, while $\text{softplus}(x)$ stays nonnegative.
```

```math
\begin{aligned}
  \rho(x)
  = \dfrac{1}{\mu}\ln(1+e^{\mu x}) \approx \text{ReLU}(x)
\end{aligned}
```

![](../docs/Figures/CommonMath/ramp.svg)

Although $\rho(x)$ is real-analytic, the implemented form is an overflow-safe representation of the function:

```math
\begin{aligned}
  \rho(x) =
  \dfrac{x+\lvert x\rvert}{2}
  + \dfrac{1}{\mu}\ln\left(1+e^{-\mu\lvert x\rvert}\right)
\end{aligned}
```
The kinks of the two terms cancel exactly.

### Quadratic Ramp

The rectified quadratic unit $\text{ReQU}$ is a one-sided quadratic ramp:

```math
\begin{aligned}
  \text{ReQU}(x)
    &=
      \begin{cases}
        0 & x\le 0 \\[0pt]
        x^2 & x\gt 0
      \end{cases}
\end{aligned}
```

> This approximation is implemented using the logistic function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We implement an approximation to $\text{ReQU}$ using the logistic function.
```

Smooth, autodiff-friendly replacements for piecewise functions used across GridKit component models. See `CommonMath.hpp` for implementation details.

- [Primitives](#primitives)
- [Derived Functions](#derived-functions)

## Primitives

| Symbol | Name | API | Description |
|--------|------|-----|-------------|
| $\sigma$ | Logistic Function | `sigmoid` | Smooth Heaviside |
| $\rho$ | Ramp | `ramp` | Smooth ReLU |

> | $q$ | Quadratic Ramp | `qramp` | Smooth ReQU |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| $\sigma$ | Logistic Function | `sigmoid` | Smooth approximation to the Heaviside step function |
| $\rho$ | Ramp | `ramp` | Smooth approximation to the ramp function |
| $q$ | Quadratic Ramp | `qramp` | Smooth approximation to the quadratic ramp function |
```

Author: accepted suggested change, I like it. thank you

The default scale $\mu$ of these functions is chosen such that $\sigma'(0)=f_{\text{sync}}$, where $f_{\text{sync}}$ is the fundamental frequency of the `PhasorDynamics` model. As $\mu\to\infty$, $\rho$ and $q$ converge to $\text{ReLU}$ and $\text{ReQU}$ everywhere, while $\sigma$ converges to $H$ for $x\ne0$.

### Logistic Function

> The Heaviside function $H$ is a unit step, defined:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Heaviside function $H$ is a unit step, defined as:
```

Author: thank you good catch

```math
\begin{aligned}
  H(x)
    &=
      \begin{cases}
        0 & x\le 0 \\[0pt]
        1 & x\gt 0
      \end{cases}
\end{aligned}
```

> The logistic function is evaluated using the equivalent hyperbolic-tangent form below to avoid overflow when evaluating the exponential form directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use the logistic function as a smooth approximation to the Heaviside function. This approximation is evaluated using the equivalent hyperbolic-tangent form below to avoid overflow when evaluating the exponential form directly.
```

```math
\begin{aligned}

>   H(x) &\approx \sigma(x) = \dfrac{1}{2}\left(1+\tanh\left(\dfrac{\mu x}{2}\right)\right)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  \sigma(x) = \dfrac{1}{2}\left(1+\tanh\left(\dfrac{\mu x}{2}\right)\right) &\approx H(x)  
```
